Next up we'll see a much better way to add multiple styles at once.
So if we go back to our code here I'm going to make a couple revisions.
Get rid of this hover style.
It's quite janky and we have all these allies.
Why don't we make a fake to do list.
So I'm going to just add in some content we'll do it maybe here before the form so I'll add in a.
Well a couple allies and the first thing I'll do it on the.
You'll add an idea of how about to dos and then I'll have a bunch of allies.
Each one will have a class of to do single to do not to use the UL will have to dos as the class.
And then we'll just have some basic to dos.
I know it's not very exciting.
Let's go with mow the lawn.
And then a couple more things.
If you milk the cows and what's one more feed the alpaca is alpacas and then let's also add in a checkbox
next to each one of these.
So I think I'm going to make my to revise this.
I've changed my mind.
I'll fast forward.
I'll show you what I do.
OK so I have three allies each with the class of to do and I've added a button inside with just an X
as the text.
This is what we get three different buttons three different allies and they all have a class of to do.
So now I'm going to add some basic styles to my to do class.
I also like to do and why don't we do font size slightly increased so maybe 30 pixels.
Let's see how that looks.
Okay.
And I'll give them a color of Olive.
And why don't we just start there.
Okay.
So I have my three tattoos here each with a button.
Now if I wanted to add some styles to mimic the crossing off of one of these to dos I want to turn it
grey so change the color.
I want to add a line through effect which is the text decoration property and to assess maybe I want
to shrink it down so it takes up less space maybe change the opacity different things that I could do
if I want to do all of those at once to mimic what happens when you click here or you click on a checkbox
which doesn't exist right now with what we know it's totally possible.
We could do a query selector to grab the very first one.
Let's get that first to do which is instead of the to dos I.D. And I'll just get extra specific.
We could just do this but I'm going to get extra fancy so that we select the first to do class instead
of the to dos I.D. element.
I'll save that to a variable cost to do equals.
And then I can go to work applying one style at a time to do that style that color equals and I'll change
it to gray suit e a let's see is that working.
OK.
So it is great.
Now to give it text decoration it's the same thing.
I just have to pay attention to camel casing and then the property name or the value is in line through
all refresh.
Is that working.
Yep.
We get our line through.
And why don't we also change the opacity to do that style dot opacity equals and maybe 50 percent that
can work for us.
Okay.
So now it is extra see through.
I also could have just done an RGA color but this is better because we have three properties and as
you can see it's three separate lines one per property.
And imagine we want to apply 20 different properties radical changes to one of these elements.
This is not very ideal.
It's not good at all.
So what is the solution.
What's the best way of achieving this.
Using a class so we define a class in our CSX we could call it completed or finished or how about done
and we'll set a color to be gray.
We'll set text decoration to be line through and we'll set opacity to be 50 percent.
So now we have this class that the element does not have but we can selectively apply it.
So I'm going to comment out the individual lines.
And now let's apply that class to apply the class we've actually already seen one way of working with
the class.
I think I have my to do over here.
Yeah.
So I selected it here.
I'm just accessing it in the console.
We can use get attribute class is an attribute.
So I can retrieve the current class and I get to do I could set attribute like this set attribute class
and then give it the class name I want to add I want to use to set the class and we called it done right.
Done Yep.
So I can do this and it works.
Our styles are applied but if we look at what happened and you can see here the font size changed that
to do has lost the to do class it has the done class which is what we wanted but we completely overrode
the to do class.
So not ideal.
That's the downside of using set attribute set attribute just takes this value here and automatically
replaces the current class.
So I could do this to do space done to apply to classes and that works but that requires me to hard
code in what I'm trying to achieve.
What are the classes.
If I have five different classes on one element and all they want to do is add the done class.
This is not the best approach.
So this brings us to a new property we haven't seen called class list.
Now class list is an object representation.
It's called a dom token list.
It kind of looks like an array but it's not.
And it contains the classes that we have on this element and it's not just about containing the classes
or allowing us to see them.
It also provides methods so that we can do things if we open this up.
We have a add method we have a contained method we've got.
What else do we have a toggle method that one is really useful and I can call these on the class list.
So let's cover up the left side of the screen and pretend we don't know if the two do currently has
the done class or not.
So we can still see it there it's gone.
We don't know if it has it or not.
And I want to make sure that it does not have it.
I want to remove it.
The easiest way is to do class list dot remove and then passing the class name and if we scroll up it's
gone.
If I try and remove it again.
No problem.
So this is already a nicer improvement.
Using said attribute I can't just say remove this one part.
I have to say here is the entire new class string containing all the old classes I want and not containing
done.
But if I do it this way I can just say get rid of done.
If it's there or it could go the opposite I could do to do that class list dot add and it will add done.
And if it's there already it's not going to keep adding it.
If we look it just has one done.
But perhaps the most useful part is the ability to toggle a class.
So if it's there already then remove it.
If it's not there.
Add it and we have a method called toggle to do just that toggle done so it's removed.
Now it's added removed added over and over and over.
Pretty good.
So this is useful.
If we were to rewrite this ourselves without class list and that method it would be kind of annoying.
We would have to access to do that get attribute class and then do maybe dot includes done and figure
out if that's true or false.
So if it's false then we want to add in done so we would do to do that set attributes class and then
we would take the current value so to do that get attribute class and then we would add into that done.
This is quite janky.
So we're saying I want to set attribute.
I want to set class to be the current value of it plus the string done.
And now we look at to do that.
Get attribute class that works.
And then if I wanted to toggle it again I could do to do it I get attribute class that includes done.
Now it's true.
So I would want to remove done and you said attribute.
It's a nightmare to have to do it well.
Nightmares may maybe an overstatement.
It's not great but if we use toggle it's super easy.
We don't have to care if it's there or not.
We just say toggle it and flip it if it's there.
Remove it if it's not there.
Add it and notice that it does return true or false.
So if the class is currently not applied right now done is not applied.
If I toggle it and it adds it in it returns true if the class is already there and I'm trying to toggle
it again it returns false when it removes that class.
So to summarize the class list it's a really really nice property we have access to because we actually
apply and remove and toggle classes all the time.
We saw the downsides of applying styles one at a time.
It's annoying for one thing to have to type them on different lines.
We have to pay attention to camel casing and also our styles end up all in our javascript.
We're writing basically a style sheet right here versus if we did it this way with a class we keep all
of our styles together.
We write them one time we put them in the actual SS file so it has all of our C Ss and we just pick
a name for the class and then from our javascript we can selectively apply and remove and toggle that
class so we can do it all in the batch.
One line right here adds in our case it adds three different styles but we could have one hundred styles
in one class.
So this is generally the better approach to change styles using JavaScript unless you are just changing
one thing you want to change the color it's a one off.
I don't know.
You just want to make something green or you want to change the font size if you want to hide something.
One time then go ahead and use the style property but if you're doing multiple styles at once or you
plan on reusing this and styling multiple elements the same way.
Create a class and add or remove it using the class list property and its methods.